README.md, before:

![Svelte](https://img.shields.io/badge/svelte-%23f1413d.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=svelte&logoColor=white) ![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/vite-%23646CFF.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white) ![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/vercel-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white)

![image info](./static/iu-marla-logo.png)

# MARLA Website

The following project is a website for the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering's Media Arts Research and Learning Lab (MARLA) in IU Indianapolis. The site was built using the [Svelte framework](https://svelte.dev/) by IU Indy Luddy students CJ Eilestine and Jeremy Black for the Spring 2025 session of Multi-Media Project Development (N420).

> For future N420 students or MARLA Council members working on this website- if you have any questions or concerns about anything in this project (whether it be a line of code or an entire function), you can reach out to [me](https://github.com/braynwash) personally at *jereblac@iu.edu* or _jeremycore_ on Discord. I'm happy to clarify anything I can!

## Description

We worked closely alongside Luddy professor Mathew Powers and members of the MARLA Member Council (most notably Haven Hamelin as our council liasion for the project) who gave us frequent guidance on development and content.

The main goal of this website is to "edutain" IU Indianapolis students, prospective and current, on the importance of MARLA as a lab and video game preservation as a whole. It aims to showcase everything MARLA and get students, families, and friends new and old excited about all different kinds of media.

## Getting Started

### Installation

1. Use GitHub Desktop, GitHub for the browser, OR run;
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/braynwash/marla-website.git
   ```
   in the project terminal to clone the repository in your envoirnment.
   <br>
2. Install NPM by running `npm i` or `npm install` in the projects' terminal. To ensure icons are visible, run `npm i @iconify/svelte` to install Iconify.
   <br>
3. To avoid accidental pushes to the deployed base project, switch the remote URL;

```
git remote set-url origin your_github_name/your_repo_name
git remote -v # confirm the changes
```

### Run Locally

To view the project on a live server, run `vite dev` in the terminal to get the live server running. A clickable localhost link will be displayed in the terminal that will take you to the live. The live updates as the code updates in real-time, so you don't need to refresh or re-reun the script to see site updates.

## Roadmap

For the next N420 group that takes on this site OR the members of MARLA Member Council, feel free to reference this list of tasks when considering next steps.

- [x] Build website from Figma design
- [x] Working contact form
- [x] Visible blog and press release "posts"
- [x] "Posts" lead to a "Read More"/details page
- [x] Add custom copy
- [ ] Add full image content provided by MARLA Council
- [x] Self-host on Vercel/GitHub Pages
- [ ] Connect "Collections" links to MARLA CollectiveAccess DB instances
- [ ] Obtain IU server space and host with custom IU domain
- [ ] Integrate IU Content Management System (LiveWhale) in blog and press release pages

## Credits

**Spring 25 Programmers:** [CJ Eilestine](https://github.com/CJ-Eilenstine) and [Jeremy Black](https://github.com/braynwash) <br>
**Figma design:** Shivani Kolala Jayaprakash

Commit message:

Updated README and switched contact key back to MARLA email

README.md, after:

![Svelte](https://img.shields.io/badge/svelte-%23f1413d.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=svelte&logoColor=white) ![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/vite-%23646CFF.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vite&logoColor=white) ![Vercel](https://img.shields.io/badge/vercel-%23000000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white)

![image info](./static/iu-marla-logo.png)

# MARLA Website

The following project is a proof-of-concept website for the Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering's Media Arts Research and Learning Lab (MARLA) in IU Indianapolis. The site was built using the [Svelte framework](https://svelte.dev/) by IU Indy Luddy students CJ Eilestine and Jeremy Black for the Spring 2025 session of Multi-Media Project Development (N420).

> For future N420 students or MARLA Council members working on this website- if you have any questions or concerns about anything in this project (whether it be a line of code or an entire function), you can reach out to [me](https://github.com/braynwash) personally at *jereblac@iu.edu* or _jeremycore_ on Discord. I'm happy to clarify anything I can!

## Description

We worked closely alongside Luddy professor Mathew Powers and members of the MARLA Member Council (most notably Haven Hamelin as our council liasion for the project) who gave us frequent guidance on development and content.

The main goal of this website is to "edutain" IU Indianapolis students, prospective and current, on the importance of MARLA as a lab and video game preservation as a whole. It aims to showcase everything MARLA and get students, families, and friends new and old excited about all different kinds of media.

## Getting Started

### Installation

1. Use GitHub Desktop, GitHub for the browser, OR run;
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/braynwash/marla-website.git
   ```
   in the project terminal to clone the repository in your envoirnment.
   <br>
2. Install NPM by running `npm i` or `npm install` in the projects' terminal. To ensure icons are visible, run `npm i @iconify/svelte` to install Iconify.
   <br>
3. To avoid accidental pushes to the deployed base project, switch the remote URL;

```
git remote set-url origin your_github_name/your_repo_name
git remote -v # confirm the changes
```

### Run Locally

To view the project on a live server, run `vite dev` in the terminal to get the live server running. A clickable localhost link will be displayed in the terminal that will take you to the live. The live updates as the code updates in real-time, so you don't need to refresh or re-reun the script to see site updates.

### Deployment

The project is currently staticly hosted through Vercel for testing and showcase purposes through this Github repository. Anytime a push to this repository gets updated on the main branch, the Vercel deployment will automatically begin updating to match the new build.

### Additional packages

The only other additional package used in this project is Iconify, which you've installed into your project from step 2 of the process above. If you're looking to add any pixelated icons, the set we used was titled "Pixelarticons" and can be found [here](https://icon-sets.iconify.design/pixelarticons/). When you click on an icon you wish to use, you can see a full breakdown of how to include it under `Components` and `Svelte` in the bottom tab of the icon. You can also see how icons are implemented and altered in the `contact` folder of this project.

## Roadmap

For the next N420 group that takes on this site OR the members of MARLA Member Council, feel free to reference this list of tasks when considering next steps.

- [x] Build website from Figma design
- [x] Working contact form
- [x] Visible blog and press release "posts"
- [x] "Posts" lead to a "Read More"/details page
- [x] Add custom copy
- [ ] Add full image content provided by MARLA Council
- [x] Self-host on Vercel/GitHub Pages
- [ ] Connect "Collections" links to MARLA CollectiveAccess DB instances
- [ ] Obtain IU server space and host with custom IU domain
- [ ] Integrate IU Content Management System (LiveWhale) in blog and press release pages

## Credits

**Spring 25 Programmers:** [CJ Eilestine](https://github.com/CJ-Eilenstine) and [Jeremy Black](https://github.com/braynwash) <br>
**Figma design:** Shivani Kolala Jayaprakash
